README.md, before:

# Scynesthesia Optimizer v1.0

![Windows 10/11](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-10%2F11-0078D6?logo=windows&logoColor=white)
![PowerShell 5.1](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerShell-5.1-5391FE?logo=powershell&logoColor=white)
![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/UI-English-3CB371)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Engine-Transactional%20Performance-8A2BE2)
![Mode](https://img.shields.io/badge/Audit-Option%207-2F855A)

A security-forward, performance-obsessed **transactional optimization engine** for Windows 10/11. Scynesthesia Optimizer v1.0 is not a disposable tweak script—it is a **modular performance platform** with rollback-first design, strict auditability, and predictable frametime outcomes across gaming, streaming, and latency-critical networking.

> [!NOTE]
> All prompts and outputs are in English. Run from an **elevated PowerShell 5.1** session; elevation is requested if missing.

---

## Run once (quick start)
Execute directly—no manual cloning required.

```powershell
start powershell -ArgumentList '-NoExit -Command "[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol=[Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12; irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scynesthesia/scynesthesia-optimizer/main/setup.ps1 | iex"'
```

> [!WARNING]
> Network and registry changes require admin rights. A restore point is created before impactful actions when supported.

### Local workflow
```powershell
git clone https://github.com/scynesthesia/scynesthesia-optimizer.git
cd scynesthesia-optimizer
Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process
./scynesthesiaoptimizer.ps1
```

---

## Why Scynesthesia Optimizer is different
Scynesthesia Optimizer is built like a **transactional system**, not a tweak pack. Every module is expected to be reversible, auditable, and context-aware. The engine tracks state before touching critical subsystems, executes guarded changes, and summarizes rollback options for deterministic recovery.

**What makes it elite:**
- **Rollback engine by design**: every high-impact action is paired with a traceable revert path.
- **Modular core**: discrete, testable modules loaded from `modules/` and routed via `modules.map.psd1`.
- **Context intelligence**: a shared `$Context` object persists device/hardware detection, prior state, and rollback metadata.
- **Predictable frametimes**: tuning favors low jitter and stable render latency, not blind benchmarking gains.

Advanced users can review the full engineering rationale in the [technical reference](docs/technical-reference.md), which documents subsystem-specific tweaks, expected gains, and trade-offs in a formal, audit-ready format.

---

## Core modules: the new performance stack

### Kernel Security
- Strategic mitigations management for controlled latency tradeoffs.
- BCD timer alignment for consistent scheduling.
- Guarded registry operations and rollback metadata for safe reversibility.

### Modern Display Stack
- FSO/MPO/WGO optimization pipeline aligned to modern render paths.
- Reduction of overlay and composition overhead for stable frametimes.
- Compatibility-aware switches to avoid legacy conflicts.

### Hardware Hardening
- Native cleanup for legacy PnP devices (HPET, WAN Miniports) with traceable actions.
- Power and thermal awareness to protect thin-and-light devices.
- Safe device toggle logic with recovery guidance.

### Network Hardcore
- WeakHost Model activation and packet consistency tuning.
- MTU discovery with binary search and safe fallback snapshots.
- RSS base CPU pinning, bufferbloat mitigation, and hardened adapter hygiene.

---

## Transactional architecture
- **Modular PowerShell suite**: Windows 10/11 modules live in `modules/` and are dynamically loaded via `modules.map.psd1` to keep dependencies explicit and discoverable.
- **Central `$Context`**: tracks persistence, hardware detection, prior state, and rollback metadata so modules can safely undo or summarize actions.
- **Guided entry points**: `setup.ps1` bootstraps securely; `scynesthesiaoptimizer.ps1` routes to profiles and modules without editing core files.
- **Non-destructive defaults**: registry writes go through guarded helpers, and hardware-aware branches avoid unsafe tweaks on unsupported systems.

---

## Presets overview

| Preset | Target use | Aggressiveness | Rollback coverage | Recommended for |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Safe** | Daily driver stability | Low | Full | Workstations, creators, business machines |
| **Balanced** | Performance + safety | Medium | Full | Gaming, streaming, productivity |
| **Aggressive** | Max performance | High | Full (with risk flags) | Competitive gaming rigs |
| **Gaming** | Latency + visuals tradeoffs | High | Full (with risk flags) | Competitive play + streaming |

> [!NOTE]
> All presets are reversible through the session summary and rollback actions stored in `$Context`.

---

## Audit Mode (Option 7)
**Option 7** is the verification engine. It inspects the system and validates that optimizations persist, detects OS reversion, and highlights drift—ensuring that your performance posture remains intact between sessions.

**Use Audit Mode when:**
- You suspect Windows updates reverted settings.
- You want proof of applied changes before tournaments or streaming events.
- You need a clean compliance report for baseline enforcement.

---

## Risk disclosure (Aggressive & Gaming)
These presets intentionally push past default Windows safety margins. They are built for expert users who can evaluate and accept tradeoffs.

> [!WARNING]
> **DRM & streaming risk**: Aggressive/Gaming changes may trigger playback or authentication issues with protected content (e.g., DRM services, Netflix). Roll back if you see playback failures.

> [!WARNING]
> **Kernel-level risk**: Disabling mitigations or modifying kernel scheduling behaviors can reduce system security. Use only on trusted, controlled systems.

---

## Design philosophy: performance with accountability
- **Predictable reversibility** beats raw aggressiveness; every hardcore toggle is paired with a documented rollback path.
- **Hardware-awareness** prevents laptop battery damage and thermal runaway on thin devices.
- **Performance with auditability**: session summaries and guarded helpers make tweaks explainable and repeatable.

| Gaming lane | Hardcore network lane |
| --- | --- |
| Prioritizes DSCP 46, HID latency, and foreground scheduler boosts | Pushes MTU/BBR/queue depth to the edge with rollback breadcrumbs |
| Keeps visual fidelity unless explicitly disabled | Trades cosmetics for determinism; favors packet discipline over comfort |
| Ideal for competitive play and streaming | Ideal for lab-grade jitter chasing with documented exit ramps |

---

## Safety & recovery practices
- Restore points and reversible registry edits come first; destructive actions are avoided by default.
- Non-destructive debloat lists and service toggles favor disablement over removal.
- Network tweaks (MTU, IPv6, NIC power states) are tracked for explicit rollback instructions.

> [!TIP]
> If something feels off, rerun the optimizer, review the session summary, and select the rollback options captured in `$Context`.

---

## Community extensibility
1. Add a new module under `modules/` and export functions you want the launcher to surface.
2. Register the module in `modules.map.psd1` so it can be discovered and loaded dynamically.
3. Follow existing coding style: guarded registry writes, `$Context` updates for persistence/rollback, and English-only prompts.
4. Keep changes modular—avoid editing core scripts unless you are extending routing or context behavior.
5. Test on Windows 10/11 with PowerShell 5.1 and note which profiles/modules you exercised.

---

## Support & issue reporting
- Open an issue with your Windows build, PowerShell version, selected profile/module, and whether hardcore networking was enabled.
- Contributions are welcome in English and should document any new flags or safety considerations.

## Troubleshooting
### Antivirus or endpoint protection false positives
Because this project modifies system settings and can disable/enable network adapters, some antivirus or EDR tools may flag it as suspicious (false positive). If the optimizer fails to launch, exits unexpectedly, or specific actions are blocked:
- Temporarily allowlist the folder where you extracted the optimizer (including `scynesthesiaoptimizer.ps1` and `modules/`).
- Ensure PowerShell is running as Administrator and that script execution is permitted for the current process.
- Re-run the optimizer after confirming the allowlist, then review the session log for any security-tool blocks.

If you believe your security tool is blocking a legitimate action, capture the log file from `%TEMP%\ScynesthesiaOptimizer` and include it with your issue report.

---

## License
Distributed under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Refine docs and console messaging

README.md, after:

# Scynesthesia Optimizer v1.0

![Windows 10/11](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-10%2F11-0078D6?logo=windows&logoColor=white)
![PowerShell 5.1](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerShell-5.1-5391FE?logo=powershell&logoColor=white)
![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/UI-English-3CB371)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Engine-Transactional%20Performance-8A2BE2)
![Mode](https://img.shields.io/badge/Audit-Option%207-2F855A)

A transactional optimization engine for Windows 10/11. Scynesthesia Optimizer v1.0 is a rollback-first platform for low-level registry, kernel, and network overrides with explicit audit trails. It targets deterministic frametime behavior and predictable latency in gaming, streaming, and network-heavy workloads.

> [!NOTE]
> All prompts and outputs are in English. Run from an **elevated PowerShell 5.1** session; elevation is requested if missing.

---

## Run once (quick start)
Execute directly—no manual cloning required.

```powershell
start powershell -ArgumentList '-NoExit -Command "[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol=[Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12; irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scynesthesia/scynesthesia-optimizer/main/setup.ps1 | iex"'
```

> [!WARNING]
> Network and registry changes require admin rights. A restore point is created before impactful actions when supported.

### Local workflow
```powershell
git clone https://github.com/scynesthesia/scynesthesia-optimizer.git
cd scynesthesia-optimizer
Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process
./scynesthesiaoptimizer.ps1
```

---

## Why Scynesthesia Optimizer is different
Scynesthesia Optimizer is built like a transactional system, not a tweak pack. Every module is reversible, auditable, and context-aware. The engine records state before touching critical subsystems, executes guarded changes, and summarizes rollback actions for deterministic recovery.

**What makes it distinct:**
- **Rollback engine by design**: every high-impact action is paired with a traceable revert path.
- **Modular core**: discrete, testable modules loaded from `modules/` and routed via `modules.map.psd1`.
- **Context intelligence**: a shared `$Context` object persists device/hardware detection, prior state, and rollback metadata.
- **Predictable frametimes**: tuning favors low jitter and stable render latency, not blind benchmarking gains.

## Engineering Transparency
For a deep-dive into the technical justification and risk analysis of our kernel and network tweaks, see our Technical Reference.
You can find it in [docs/technical-reference.md](docs/technical-reference.md).

---

## Core modules: the performance stack

### Kernel Security
- Strategic mitigations management for controlled latency tradeoffs.
- BCD timer alignment for consistent scheduling.
- Guarded registry operations and rollback metadata for safe reversibility.

### Modern Display Stack
- FSO/MPO/WGO optimization pipeline aligned to modern render paths.
- Reduction of overlay and composition overhead for stable frametimes.
- Compatibility-aware switches to avoid legacy conflicts.

### Hardware Hardening
- Native cleanup for legacy PnP devices (HPET, WAN Miniports) with traceable actions.
- Power and thermal awareness to protect thin-and-light devices.
- Safe device toggle logic with recovery guidance.

### Network Hardcore
- WeakHost Model activation and packet consistency tuning.
- MTU discovery with binary search and safe fallback snapshots.
- RSS base CPU pinning, bufferbloat mitigation, and hardened adapter hygiene.

---

## Transactional architecture
- **Modular PowerShell suite**: Windows 10/11 modules live in `modules/` and are dynamically loaded via `modules.map.psd1` to keep dependencies explicit and discoverable.
- **Central `$Context`**: tracks persistence, hardware detection, prior state, and rollback metadata so modules can safely undo or summarize actions.
- **Guided entry points**: `setup.ps1` bootstraps securely; `scynesthesiaoptimizer.ps1` routes to profiles and modules without editing core files.
- **Non-destructive defaults**: registry writes go through guarded helpers, and hardware-aware branches avoid unsafe tweaks on unsupported systems.

---

## Presets overview

| Preset | Target use | Aggressiveness | Rollback coverage | Recommended for |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Safe** | Daily driver stability | Low | Full | Workstations, creators, business machines |
| **Balanced** | Performance + safety | Medium | Full | Gaming, streaming, productivity |
| **Aggressive** | Max performance | High | Full (with risk flags) | Competitive gaming rigs |
| **Gaming** | Latency + visuals tradeoffs | High | Full (with risk flags) | Competitive play + streaming |

> [!NOTE]
> All presets are reversible through the session summary and rollback actions stored in `$Context`.

---

## Audit Mode (Option 7)
**Option 7** is the verification engine. It inspects the system and validates that optimizations persist, detects OS reversion, and highlights drift—ensuring that your performance posture remains intact between sessions.

**Use Audit Mode when:**
- You suspect Windows updates reverted settings.
- You want proof of applied changes before tournaments or streaming events.
- You need a clean compliance report for baseline enforcement.

---

## Risk disclosure (Aggressive & Gaming)
These presets intentionally push past default Windows safety margins. They are built for expert users who can evaluate and accept tradeoffs.

> [!WARNING]
> **Spectre/Meltdown exposure**: Aggressive/Gaming settings can disable kernel mitigations. This reduces syscall overhead but removes protections against speculative execution attacks.

> [!WARNING]
> **HDCP/DRM breakage**: NVIDIA tweaks can disable HDCP checks. Protected playback (Netflix, Disney+, Prime Video) or DRM authentication may fail. Roll back if protected content breaks.

> [!WARNING]
> **Kernel-level risk**: Disabling mitigations or modifying kernel scheduling behaviors can reduce system security. Use only on trusted, controlled systems.

---

## Design philosophy: performance with accountability
- **Predictable reversibility** beats raw aggressiveness; every hardcore toggle is paired with a documented rollback path.
- **Hardware-awareness** prevents laptop battery damage and thermal runaway on thin devices.
- **Performance with auditability**: session summaries and guarded helpers make tweaks explainable and repeatable.

| Gaming lane | Hardcore network lane |
| --- | --- |
| Prioritizes DSCP 46, HID latency, and foreground scheduler boosts | Pushes MTU/BBR/queue depth to the edge with rollback breadcrumbs |
| Keeps visual fidelity unless explicitly disabled | Trades cosmetics for determinism; favors packet discipline over comfort |
| Ideal for competitive play and streaming | Ideal for lab-grade jitter chasing with documented exit ramps |

---

## Safety & recovery practices
- Restore points and reversible registry edits come first; destructive actions are avoided by default.
- Non-destructive debloat lists and service toggles favor disablement over removal.
- Network tweaks (MTU, IPv6, NIC power states) are tracked for explicit rollback instructions.

> [!TIP]
> If something feels off, rerun the optimizer, review the session summary, and select the rollback options captured in `$Context`.

---

## Community extensibility
1. Add a new module under `modules/` and export functions you want the launcher to surface.
2. Register the module in `modules.map.psd1` so it can be discovered and loaded dynamically.
3. Follow existing coding style: guarded registry writes, `$Context` updates for persistence/rollback, and English-only prompts.
4. Keep changes modular—avoid editing core scripts unless you are extending routing or context behavior.
5. Test on Windows 10/11 with PowerShell 5.1 and note which profiles/modules you exercised.

---

## Support & issue reporting
- Open an issue with your Windows build, PowerShell version, selected profile/module, and whether hardcore networking was enabled.
- Contributions are welcome in English and should document any new flags or safety considerations.

## Troubleshooting
### Antivirus or endpoint protection false positives
Because this project modifies system settings and can disable/enable network adapters, some antivirus or EDR tools may flag it as suspicious (false positive). If the optimizer fails to launch, exits unexpectedly, or specific actions are blocked:
- Temporarily allowlist the folder where you extracted the optimizer (including `scynesthesiaoptimizer.ps1` and `modules/`).
- Ensure PowerShell is running as Administrator and that script execution is permitted for the current process.
- Re-run the optimizer after confirming the allowlist, then review the session log for any security-tool blocks.

If you believe your security tool is blocking a legitimate action, capture the log file from `%TEMP%\ScynesthesiaOptimizer` and include it with your issue report.

---

## Credits & Inspiration
Scynesthesia Optimizer is an evolution of performance research shared by communities like O&O, melodytheneko, and latency-focused hardware enthusiasts who mapped the real-world cost of kernel and driver behavior.

---

## License
Distributed under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
